I would like to get your all thoughts on the bond yield increase this week. I am not
worried about the market downturn but the sudden increase in yields. On 2/16 the 10 year
bonds yields increased by almost 9 percent and on 2/19 the yield increased by almost 5
percent.

Key Points from the CNBC Article:

* The "taper tantrum" in 2013 was a sudden spike in Treasury yields due to market panic
  after the Federal Reserve announced that it would begin tapering its quantitative easing
  program.
* Major central banks around the world have cut interest rates to historic lows and
  launched unprecedented quantities of asset purchases in a bid to shore up the economy
  throughout the pandemic.
* However, the recent rise in yields suggests that some investors are starting to
  anticipate a tightening of policy sooner than anticipated to accommodate a potential
  rise in inflation.

The recent rise in bond yields and U.S. inflation expectations has some investors wary
that a repeat of the 2013 "taper tantrum" could be on the horizon. The benchmark U.S.
10-year Treasury note climbed above 1.3% for the first time since February 2020 earlier
this week, while the 30-year bond also hit its highest level for a year. Yields move
inversely to bond prices.

Yields tend to rise in lockstep with inflation expectations, which have reached their
highest levels in a decade in the U.S., powered by increased prospects of a large fiscal
stimulus package, progress on vaccine rollouts and pent-up consumer demand.

The "taper tantrum" in 2013 was a sudden spike in Treasury yields due to market panic
after the Federal Reserve announced that it would begin tapering its quantitative easing
program. Major central banks around the world have cut interest rates to historic lows
and launched unprecedented quantities of asset purchases in a bid to shore up the economy
throughout the pandemic. The Fed and others have maintained supportive tones in recent
policy meetings, vowing to keep financial conditions loose as the global economy looks
to emerge from the Covid-19 pandemic.

However, the recent rise in yields suggests that some investors are starting to anticipate
a tightening of policy sooner than anticipated to accommodate a potential rise in
inflation. With central bank support removed, bonds usually fall in price which sends
yields higher. This can also spill over into stock markets as higher interest rates means
more debt servicing for firms, causing traders to reassess the investing environment.

"The supportive stance from policymakers will likely remain in place until the vaccines
have paved a way to some return to normality," said Shane Balkham, chief investment
officer at Beaufort Investment, in a research note this week.

"However, there will be a risk of another 'taper tantrum' similar to the one we witnessed
in 2013, and this is our main focus for 2021," Balkham projected, should policymakers
begin to unwind this stimulus.

Long-term bond yields in Japan and Europe followed U.S. Treasurys higher toward the end
of the week as bondholders shifted their portfolios.

"The fear is that these assets are priced to perfection when the ECB and Fed might
eventually taper," said Sebastien Galy, senior macro strategist at Nordea Asset
Management, in a research note entitled "Little taper tantrum."

"The odds of tapering are helped in the United States by better retail sales after four
months of disappointment and the expectation of large issuance from the $1.9 trillion
fiscal package."

Galy suggested the Fed would likely extend the duration on its asset purchases, moderating
the upward momentum in inflation.

"Equity markets have reacted negatively to higher yield as it offers an alternative to the
dividend yield and a higher discount to long-term cash flows, making them focus more on
medium-term growth such as cyclicals," he said.

Galy expects this process to be more marked in the second half of the year when economic
growth picks up, increasing the potential for tapering.

Allianz CEO Oliver Bate told CNBC on Friday that there was a geographical divergence in
how the German insurer is thinking about the prospect of interest rate hikes.

"One is Europe, where we continue to have financial repression, where the ECB continues
to buy up to the max in order to minimize spreads between the north and the south — the
strong balance sheets and the weak ones — and at some point somebody will have to pay the
price for that, but in the short term I don't see any spike in interest rates," Bate said.

However, not all analysts are convinced that the rise in bond yields is material for
markets. In a note Friday, Barclays Head of European Equity Strategy Emmanuel Cau
suggested that rising bond yields were overdue, as they had been lagging the improving
macroeconomic outlook for the second half of 2021, and said they were a "normal feature"
of economic recovery.
